#summary extChangelog.sh - Retrieving upload comments for a TYPO3 extension.

= Introduction =

The main purpose of `extChangelog.sh` is to retrieve the upload comments for a given TYPO3 extension from the cached extension information in the database.  

= Arguments =
{{{
$ ./extChangelog.sh --help
  Usage: ./extChangelog.sh [OPTIONS] [--extension=]EXTKEY

  Core:
  --help              Display this help and exit.
  --update            Tries to update the script to the latest version.
  --base=PATH         The name of the base path where Typo3 is
                      installed. If no base is supplied, "typo3" is used.
  --export-config     Prints the default configuration of this script.
  --extract-config    Extracts configuration parameters from TYPO3.

  Options:
  --extension=EXTKEY  The extension key of the extension for which to retrieve
                      the changelog.
  --first=VERSION     The first version that should be listed.
  --last=VERSION      The last version that should be listed.
  --skip-first        Skip the first found version.

  Database:
  --hostname=HOST     The name of the host where the TYPO3 database is running.
  --username=USER     The username to use when connecting to the TYPO3
                      database.
  --password=PASSWORD The password to use when connecting to the TYPO3
                      database.
  --database=DB       The name of the database in which TYPO3 is stored.

}}}

== Overview ==

For general information regarding the configuration of scripts in the typo3scripts suite, please see the article about Configuration.

== `--help` ==
Prints the output seen above, giving an overview of available command line parameters.

== `--update` ==
Invokes the self-updating mechanism in this script. This will download the latest release version (from SVN trunk) from `code.google.com` and replace your current script.

Please note, every time the script runs it will perform a quick check if a new version is available. If a new version is found online, the following message will be printed to the standard output:
{{{
NOTE: New version available!
}}}

== `--base` / `BASE` ==
By default, TYPO3 installations will be created in a subfolder relative to the current working directory, named `typo3`. Use `--base` if the installation should be placed in a differently named subfolder.
{{{
$ ./extChangelog.sh --base=myt3site --extension=news
}}}

== `--export-config` ==
Print the default configuration of the script to the standard output.

This allows for easy generation of a default config file, like so:
{{{
$ ./extChangelog.sh --export-config > typo3scripts.conf
}}}

== `--extract-config` ==
Tries to read the database-related parameters out of the TYPO3 configuration file.

This allows for easy generation of a base config file for other typo3scripts after you have completed your TYPO3 installation.
{{{
$ ./extChangelog.sh --extract-config > typo3scripts.conf
}}}

In case you're using a non-default TYPO3 installation directory, make sure to supply the `--base` parameter *before* the `--extract-config` parameter.
{{{
$ ./extChangelog.sh --base=myt3site --extract-config > typo3scripts.conf
}}}

== `--hostname` / `HOST` ==
The name of the host where the database for TYPO3 is running.

== `--username` / `USER` ==
The username for the connection to the database for the TYPO3 installation.

== `--password` / `PASS` ==
The password for the connection to the database for the TYPO3 installation. If not defined, `bootstrap.sh` will try to initialize the password to a random 16 character string.

== `--database` / `DB` ==
The name of the database for the TYPO3 installation. This parameter is currently unused.

= Examples =
